dev_readme.md, before:

# How to start website

If you're interested in building and running the AutSPACE platform, read on!

## Setup
Before starting, please check that the following minimum requirements have been completed.

1. Install [Docker](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop). (Latest stable release, version 20.10.5 or greater)
2. Install [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/). (Latest stable release, version 1.28.5 or greater)
3. Create an [Open Humans](https://www.openhumans.org/) account.
4. Some version of Python 3.x.x.

## Installation
Project installation can be tricky, but like all things, progress is made one step at a time. 

1. [Clone](#cloning-the-repository) the repository at [AutSPACEs](https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/AutSPACEs)
2. Within the `config` directory, copy `.env.template` to `.env`. 
  Note: ***DO NOT UPLOAD THESE .ENV FILES ONTO GITHUB*** It's the equivalent of posting your passport ID on Twitter. Don't do it.

### Open Humans Project Creation
This step is a little tricky, but you're almost there. 

1. Login to [OpenHumans](openhumans.org). 
2. Navigate to [Manage Project](https://www.openhumans.org/direct-sharing/projects/manage/).
3. Create a new Oauth2 Data Request Project on Open Humans. 
4. Populate the required fields as directed. 
5. In the `Redirect URL` field, enter `http://localhost:8000/openhumans/complete`.
6. Click `Create Project`.

You'll need to obtain the Client ID and Client Secret for the OAuth project you've created. 

1. Navigate to [Manage Project](https://www.openhumans.org/direct-sharing/projects/manage/).
2. Click the newly created project. 
3. Copy and paste somewhere safe the `Client ID` and `Client Secret` under `OAuth2 Credentials`. 

### Project Configuration 
Within `.env` there are four different fields that must be populated for the project to build.

#### Django Secret Key Generation
1. Open `.env` in your favorite editor, and using `python3`, follow the instructions under the `django` header to copy/paste the generated secret key to `DJANGO_SECRET_KEY` 

The following...
`DJANGO_SECRET_KEY=__CHANGEME__`

should look something like this, where XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX is the generated key. 
`DJANGO_SECRET_KEY=XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX`

#### Configuring OpenHumans
Further down the `.env` file, you should see three texts: `OPENHUMANS_CLIENT_ID`, `OPENHUMANS_CLIENT_SECRET`, and `OPENHUMANS_APP_BASE_URL`.

1. Copy the `Client ID` and `Client Secret` that you've copied previously into `OPENHUMANS_CLIENT_ID` and `OPENHUMANS_CLIENT_SECRET`, respectively.
It should look something like this, where XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX are the inputted information. 
```
OPENHUMANS_CLIENT_ID=XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
OPENHUMANS_CLIENT_SECRET=XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
````

2. Type the following url into `OPENHUMANS_APP_BASE_URL`.
It should look like this!

```
OPENHUMANS_APP_BASE_URL="http://localhost:8000"
```

3. You're done!

## Running the Project
The project builds and runs in a self-contained environment called Docker. This means developer environments are preserved, and you don't need to mess with any dependency management or installation.

1. Open up Terminal or Command Line in the root level of the repository and execute the following command: `./docker-run.sh`

   If this step fails with the following error
   ```qemu-x86_64: Could not open '/lib64/ld-linux-x86-64.so.2': No such file or directory```
   
   You may have an M1 chip in your computer. Try again after setting your local `DOCKER_DEFAULT_PLATFORM` to linux/amd64
   ```export DOCKER_DEFAULT_PLATFORM=linux/amd64```

2. Open your browser to `http://localhost:8000`

*This will display the AutSPACEs website.* Yay!

Note: Please note that certain aspects of the website may not be fully functional. ;)

## Glossary 

* Clone: make a copy of all the files and folder in the repository on your computer
* Docker: a tool which creates an individual place (called a 'container') for a software project which is set up for that project to run.
* Fork: your fork is your own personal copy of the repository, where you can make changes without affecting the main repository until you make a pull request. 
* Git: is a free, open source tool that is useful for version control (keeping a record of and managing changes to software code)
* GitHub: GitHub is an online tool which makes it easier for people to work collaboratively using Git. 
* Repository: this is a place which holds all the files and folders specific to one project. On GitHub, this is where people can work on a project together. 
* Root level: this is the level of the project which contains all the others as files and subfolders
* Terminal: this is an application on your computer which allows you to use code to modify your computer's software and files. 

## How-Tos 

### Cloning the Repository
  1. **Fork** the repository by clicking on the Fork icon at the top right hand corner of the page. 
  2. Above the list of files, click the green **Code** button.
  3. Clone the repository into your local directory. 
  4. Open terminal to the project directory.
  5. Type 'git clone', and then paste the URL you copied earlier. It will look like this, with your GitHub username instead of YOUR-USERNAME:
  >$ git clone https://github.com/YOUR-USERNAME/AutSPACEs
  7. Press enter. Your local clone will be created. 

### Extra Tips

*If you aren't sure how to get to the root repository, you can find it more easily by following these steps:* 

1. Type `git config --global alias.root 'rev-parse --show-toplevel` into your terminal. This will create a simpler command to take you to the root repository. 
2. Type `cd $(git root)` into your terminal. This will take you to the root of the repository you are in. 

#### Accessing the database

To access the PostgreSQL database:

1. Run `docker exec -it autspaces_db_1 bash`
2. In the subsequent terminal, run `psql --username=autspaces`

### Docker overview 

You might find the chapter on [reproducible computational environments](https://the-turing-way.netlify.app/reproducible-research/renv.html) and spectifically the section on [containers](https://the-turing-way.netlify.app/reproducible-research/renv/renv-containers.html) in _The Turing Way_ useful!

Commit message:

Move platform setting from DockerFile to docker-run.sh
This change moves the enforcement of an amd64 image on M1 macs from the
DockerFile to docker-run.sh using an environment variable. This way we
can ensure it only applies if an M1 mac is in use.

dev_readme.md, after:

# How to start website

If you're interested in building and running the AutSPACE platform, read on!

## Setup
Before starting, please check that the following minimum requirements have been completed.

1. Install [Docker](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop). (Latest stable release, version 20.10.5 or greater)
2. Install [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/). (Latest stable release, version 1.28.5 or greater)
3. Create an [Open Humans](https://www.openhumans.org/) account.
4. Some version of Python 3.x.x.

## Installation
Project installation can be tricky, but like all things, progress is made one step at a time. 

1. [Clone](#cloning-the-repository) the repository at [AutSPACEs](https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/AutSPACEs)
2. Within the `config` directory, copy `.env.template` to `.env`. 
  Note: ***DO NOT UPLOAD THESE .ENV FILES ONTO GITHUB*** It's the equivalent of posting your passport ID on Twitter. Don't do it.

### Open Humans Project Creation
This step is a little tricky, but you're almost there. 

1. Login to [OpenHumans](openhumans.org). 
2. Navigate to [Manage Project](https://www.openhumans.org/direct-sharing/projects/manage/).
3. Create a new Oauth2 Data Request Project on Open Humans. 
4. Populate the required fields as directed. 
5. In the `Redirect URL` field, enter `http://localhost:8000/openhumans/complete`.
6. Click `Create Project`.

You'll need to obtain the Client ID and Client Secret for the OAuth project you've created. 

1. Navigate to [Manage Project](https://www.openhumans.org/direct-sharing/projects/manage/).
2. Click the newly created project. 
3. Copy and paste somewhere safe the `Client ID` and `Client Secret` under `OAuth2 Credentials`. 

### Project Configuration 
Within `.env` there are four different fields that must be populated for the project to build.

#### Django Secret Key Generation
1. Open `.env` in your favorite editor, and using `python3`, follow the instructions under the `django` header to copy/paste the generated secret key to `DJANGO_SECRET_KEY` 

The following...
`DJANGO_SECRET_KEY=__CHANGEME__`

should look something like this, where XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX is the generated key. 
`DJANGO_SECRET_KEY=XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX`

#### Configuring OpenHumans
Further down the `.env` file, you should see three texts: `OPENHUMANS_CLIENT_ID`, `OPENHUMANS_CLIENT_SECRET`, and `OPENHUMANS_APP_BASE_URL`.

1. Copy the `Client ID` and `Client Secret` that you've copied previously into `OPENHUMANS_CLIENT_ID` and `OPENHUMANS_CLIENT_SECRET`, respectively.
It should look something like this, where XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX are the inputted information. 
```
OPENHUMANS_CLIENT_ID=XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
OPENHUMANS_CLIENT_SECRET=XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
````

2. Type the following url into `OPENHUMANS_APP_BASE_URL`.
It should look like this!

```
OPENHUMANS_APP_BASE_URL="http://localhost:8000"
```

3. You're done!

## Running the Project
The project builds and runs in a self-contained environment called Docker. This means developer environments are preserved, and you don't need to mess with any dependency management or installation.

1. Open up Terminal or Command Line in the root level of the repository and execute the following command: `./docker-run.sh`
   Note that if you're using an M1 Mac the docker-run.sh script will force the use of an x84 linux image running using
   QEMU, which will reduce performance but avoids compatability issues.

2. Open your browser to `http://localhost:8000`

*This will display the AutSPACEs website.* Yay!

Note: Please note that certain aspects of the website may not be fully functional. ;)

## Glossary 

* Clone: make a copy of all the files and folder in the repository on your computer
* Docker: a tool which creates an individual place (called a 'container') for a software project which is set up for that project to run.
* Fork: your fork is your own personal copy of the repository, where you can make changes without affecting the main repository until you make a pull request. 
* Git: is a free, open source tool that is useful for version control (keeping a record of and managing changes to software code)
* GitHub: GitHub is an online tool which makes it easier for people to work collaboratively using Git. 
* Repository: this is a place which holds all the files and folders specific to one project. On GitHub, this is where people can work on a project together. 
* Root level: this is the level of the project which contains all the others as files and subfolders
* Terminal: this is an application on your computer which allows you to use code to modify your computer's software and files. 

## How-Tos 

### Cloning the Repository
  1. **Fork** the repository by clicking on the Fork icon at the top right hand corner of the page. 
  2. Above the list of files, click the green **Code** button.
  3. Clone the repository into your local directory. 
  4. Open terminal to the project directory.
  5. Type 'git clone', and then paste the URL you copied earlier. It will look like this, with your GitHub username instead of YOUR-USERNAME:
  >$ git clone https://github.com/YOUR-USERNAME/AutSPACEs
  7. Press enter. Your local clone will be created. 

### Extra Tips

*If you aren't sure how to get to the root repository, you can find it more easily by following these steps:* 

1. Type `git config --global alias.root 'rev-parse --show-toplevel` into your terminal. This will create a simpler command to take you to the root repository. 
2. Type `cd $(git root)` into your terminal. This will take you to the root of the repository you are in. 

#### Accessing the database

To access the PostgreSQL database:

1. Run `docker exec -it autspaces_db_1 bash`
2. In the subsequent terminal, run `psql --username=autspaces`

### Docker overview 

You might find the chapter on [reproducible computational environments](https://the-turing-way.netlify.app/reproducible-research/renv.html) and spectifically the section on [containers](https://the-turing-way.netlify.app/reproducible-research/renv/renv-containers.html) in _The Turing Way_ useful!
