GSoC-2021/Kush-Kothari.md, before:

# GSoC 2021 Expression of Interest
## Kush Kothari (Web and Python developer | ML Enthusiast)
#### Email: kushkothari2001@gmail.com
#### GitHub profile: [kkothari2001](https://github.com/kkothari2001)
#### LinkedIn profile: [Kush Kothari](https://www.linkedin.com/in/kush-kothari-ba013218b/)


## Assessment Step 1.

Link to the deployed site: [ohuploaderkushk](https://ohuploaderkushk.herokuapp.com/)

Link to activity page on OpenHumans: [GSoC assessment for Kush Kothari](https://www.openhumans.org/activity/gsoc-assesment-for-kush-kothari/)

## Assessment Step 2.

### Django Projects:
- [To-Do App](https://github.com/kkothari2001/django-todo): App that can be used to maintain a list of tasks that can be dynamically added and deleted once completed.
- [URL Shortner](https://github.com/kkothari2001/django-url-shortner): A bitly clone that stores URLs in a database as a hash and redirects when the URL is clicked.

Please Note: While these projects show my Django skills, I believe they might not be the best way to show some of my other web development skills like web design. I urge you to go through the following links which are a showcase of some of the best projects I have made.

- [The SRA Website](https://sravjti.tech/): This is the website for the Society of Robotics and Automation, VJTI. I am a member of it and have made the entire site using HTML,Sass(CSS) and JavaScript. The code is curently private (because we are working on a backend authentication system right now). But if you wish, I can provide a bundled together zip archive of all the front end mockups in HTML,Sass and JS.

- [twAIn](https://github.com/kkothari2001/twAIn): As the punny name suggests, we created an AI in python that can write awesome stories after being trained on many modern classics! For this project I created the Web UI, and worked on the GPT-2 model that produces the stories.


## Assessment Step 3.

I'd like to contribute to the [Enter Experience Flow](https://github.com/GeorgiaHCA/AutSPACEs/blob/main/platform-design/requirements-list.md#enter-experiences-flow) page(s).

To access this page, I realise that the user will be logged into the site and the user data will be availabe through the [request.user.openhumansmember Object](https://django-open-humans.readthedocs.io/en/latest/modules/interactions.html#accessing-an-openhumansmember-object)

Starting with the basic functionality of the page(Backend implementation details):
- The input of the user is expected one of 5 different types
  - Free text (that will be later displayed on the "view other experiences" page as a single paragraph tag)
  - Structured Markdown (That can be converted first to HTML using the highly customizable library [Python-Markdown](https://pypi.org/project/Markdown/))
  - Recorded voice (Just like the Crisis Logger website mentioned in the list)
  - Recorded video using connected webcam.
  - Optional upload of image, sound and video files 
    - The site will allow the user to upload a file.
    - Resulting entire form will be authenticated in the backend via Django forms.
    - Thus the form will be considered valid only if the user uploaded the correct file type (.jpg, .png, .mp4, .mp3 ...etc.) to the form.
- Once the user scrolls down they will also get to select who has the data access permissions. This will be another field in the Model for UserExperience
- Details(Fields) of a Model of UserExperience will be
  - Primary Key (as generated by Django)
  - User (a relation to the Users database which will be instances of users as formed by the [OpenHumansMemberObject](https://django-open-humans.readthedocs.io/en/latest/modules/interactions.html#accessing-an-openhumansmember-object) from the [django-open-humans](https://django-open-humans.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html) library)
  - Type: A kind of an enum (enforced via validation rules) which will store the type of experience it is from the 5 mentioned above.
  - Content (to store the actual content or reference to a file)
  - Permissions: To store the kind of permissions the user has given for viewers and researchers.
  - Associated Tags: For filtering options when searching up other experiences.

The form filling flow will be as follows:
- User is greeted with the appropriate title, text and the options:
  - Text
  - Image
  - Sound
  - Video
- Once the user clicks on these further suboptions will appear depending on the choice selected. The sub-options are mapped as:
  - Text
    - Simple text
    - Markdown
  - Image
    - Upload image
    - Take image from Webcam
  - Sound
    - Record sound using microphone
    - Upload a sound file
  - Video
    - Record video via webcam and microphone
    - Upload a video file
- The user gets to now change permissions and add comma-seperated tags for the experience
- There will be a checkbox for adult content (the form will automatically add the "adult content" tag to the tag list when submitting this to the backend.)
- A consent radio button
- On selecting "Submit" the user will either be redirected to a confirmation page (in case of no error in the form validation) or the same page but now with a red error popup (in case of a faliure in the backend).
- The confirmation page will now have easy navigation buttons just like its mentioned in the mockups on Figma. Options include:
  - Enter another Experience
  - Go to the My Experiences page
  - View other Experiences
  - Find out more about AutSPACEs

Commit message:

Slight addittions to the possible database Schema

GSoC-2021/Kush-Kothari.md, after:

# GSoC 2021 Expression of Interest
## Kush Kothari (Web and Python developer | ML Enthusiast)
#### Email: kushkothari2001@gmail.com
#### GitHub profile: [kkothari2001](https://github.com/kkothari2001)
#### LinkedIn profile: [Kush Kothari](https://www.linkedin.com/in/kush-kothari-ba013218b/)


## Assessment Step 1.

Link to the deployed site: [ohuploaderkushk](https://ohuploaderkushk.herokuapp.com/)

Link to activity page on OpenHumans: [GSoC assessment for Kush Kothari](https://www.openhumans.org/activity/gsoc-assesment-for-kush-kothari/)

## Assessment Step 2.

### Django Projects:
- [To-Do App](https://github.com/kkothari2001/django-todo): App that can be used to maintain a list of tasks that can be dynamically added and deleted once completed.
- [URL Shortner](https://github.com/kkothari2001/django-url-shortner): A bitly clone that stores URLs in a database as a hash and redirects when the URL is clicked.

Please Note: While these projects show my Django skills, I believe they might not be the best way to show some of my other web development skills like web design. I urge you to go through the following links which are a showcase of some of the best projects I have made.

- [The SRA Website](https://sravjti.tech/): This is the website for the Society of Robotics and Automation, VJTI. I am a member of it and have made the entire site using HTML,Sass(CSS) and JavaScript. The code is curently private (because we are working on a backend authentication system right now). But if you wish, I can provide a bundled together zip archive of all the front end mockups in HTML,Sass and JS.

- [twAIn](https://github.com/kkothari2001/twAIn): As the punny name suggests, we created an AI in python that can write awesome stories after being trained on many modern classics! For this project I created the Web UI, and worked on the GPT-2 model that produces the stories.


## Assessment Step 3.

I'd like to contribute to the [Enter Experience Flow](https://github.com/GeorgiaHCA/AutSPACEs/blob/main/platform-design/requirements-list.md#enter-experiences-flow) page(s).

To access this page, I realise that the user will be logged into the site and the user data will be availabe through the [request.user.openhumansmember Object](https://django-open-humans.readthedocs.io/en/latest/modules/interactions.html#accessing-an-openhumansmember-object)

Starting with the basic functionality of the page(Backend implementation details):
- The input of the user is expected one of 5 different types
  - Free text (that will be later displayed on the "view other experiences" page as a single paragraph tag)
  - Structured Markdown (That can be converted first to HTML using the highly customizable library [Python-Markdown](https://pypi.org/project/Markdown/))
  - Recorded voice (Just like the Crisis Logger website mentioned in the list)
  - Recorded video using connected webcam.
  - Optional upload of image, sound and video files 
    - The site will allow the user to upload a file.
    - Resulting entire form will be authenticated in the backend via Django forms.
    - Thus the form will be considered valid only if the user uploaded the correct file type (.jpg, .png, .mp4, .mp3 ...etc.) to the form.
- Once the user scrolls down they will also get to select who has the data access permissions. This will be another field in the Model for UserExperience
- Details(Fields) of a Model of UserExperience will be
  - Primary Key (as generated by Django)
  - User (a relation to the Users database which will be instances of users as formed by the [OpenHumansMemberObject](https://django-open-humans.readthedocs.io/en/latest/modules/interactions.html#accessing-an-openhumansmember-object) from the [django-open-humans](https://django-open-humans.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html) library)
  - Type: A kind of an enum (enforced via validation rules) which will store the type of experience it is from the 5 mentioned above.
  - Content (to store the actual content or reference to a file)
  - Permissions: To store the kind of permissions the user has given for viewers and researchers.
  - Associated Tags: For filtering options when searching up other experiences.
  - Date: Date on which the experience was published
  - Time: So that we can show details like "published 20mins ago" on the view other experiences page.
  - Meta Data: Other possible meta data that could be associated with each post.

The form filling flow will be as follows:
- User is greeted with the appropriate title, text and the options:
  - Text
  - Image
  - Sound
  - Video
- Once the user clicks on these further suboptions will appear depending on the choice selected. The sub-options are mapped as:
  - Text
    - Simple text
    - Markdown
  - Image
    - Upload image
    - Take image from Webcam
  - Sound
    - Record sound using microphone
    - Upload a sound file
  - Video
    - Record video via webcam and microphone
    - Upload a video file
- The user gets to now change permissions and add comma-seperated tags for the experience
- There will be a checkbox for adult content (the form will automatically add the "adult content" tag to the tag list when submitting this to the backend.)
- A consent radio button
- On selecting "Submit" the user will either be redirected to a confirmation page (in case of no error in the form validation) or the same page but now with a red error popup (in case of a faliure in the backend).
- The confirmation page will now have easy navigation buttons just like its mentioned in the mockups on Figma. Options include:
  - Enter another Experience
  - Go to the My Experiences page
  - View other Experiences
  - Find out more about AutSPACEs
