# Week 1
This week I completed working on the landing page for the AutSPACEs website with reference to the simplified wire frames created with the needs of the autistic people in mind. I also pushed my work to the AutSPACEs repository. In addition to this, I attended a platform development co-working session where I explained to the new contributors how to solve issues from the repo and how the backend database Open Humans works. I also helped some contributors set up docker on their machine and build the website on the computer. I’ve also started working on the Share Experiences page.

My plan for next week is to complete the Share Experiences page and integrate the pages made by me and another contributor into Django to implement the user flow of the website. I would also want to complete other static pages like the My Stories page which is part of Milestone 2 which we trying to complete as soon as possible.

As of now, the only blocker I’ve faced is trying to build the documentation on my machine. There was an issue with installing a new version of Python which stopped my terminal from opening. However, I was able to fix that issue but had to revert back to my previous version. The documentation, unfortunately needs that new Python version to run a package called poetry which installs dependencies to build the documentation. I talked a lot to the lead developer regarding this and I’m planning to try using pyenv to do this. However, the documentation build isn’t a major priority as of now as the main code needs to be written first. I will definitely try pyenv later to see if that fixes the issue.